Hello and welcome back.
My name is Vitale and today we're going to talk about the ultimate parade the principal or the principal
on steroids.
How I would have liked to refer to it.
So we learnt in the previous tutorials that the 80:20 rule is referring to 20 percent of the inputs
usually give us 80 percent of the outputs that we're intending.
This same rule can be applied consecutively and if we do it twice we will get to the equation that only
1 percent of the inputs will give us roughly half roughly 50 percent of the output.
So this is what I would call the ultimate or proto principle on steroids.
It's the ultimate way to prioritize things.
And you can apply it not only in the business world but also in the personal world.
And let me show you how how to do it.
Imagine that you have a task list or to do list for tomorrow and let's say tomorrow is Wednesday out
of all these tasks that are roughly of equal of equal value in terms of resources consumed of equal
capacity.
For example one man hour every one hour of your time tomorrow will equal one task.
You can quickly prioritize those tasks based on the intended output from them whether it's the amount
of work done per that task or the importance on in your life the pleasure you're going to get from doing
things like your hobbies for example or the work related outputs for example money earned or whatnot
you can use the period of principle to prioritize your tasks and identify the precious few the 20 percent
that will give you 80 percent of the output if you try to apply the same principle to this list over
and over.
You should be able to get to only one task that matters the most.
That gives disproportionally large outputs compared to any other task on the list.
And what it would mean effectively that by doing just this one single task tomorrow would give you the
most.
In that timeframe and then you could think of allocating your time and effectively your resources elsewhere
and just stick to one task.
Or just simply prioritize and start with this task 11.
First get it done and then move on to the next next tasks.
So if there is any destruction that happens during the day and you will have to abandon your to do list
early in the morning you've already nailed the most important task on that list which has the biggest
output.
So this is what I would call the ultimate period of principle.
And again to recap effectively means applying your Pareto principle over and over until you get to a
very small almost single unit of the inputs on the left hand side that determines a big part disproportionately
big part of the outputs.
I hope you enjoyed it guys.
Thank you very much for listening and I'll see you in the next tutorial.